# Classification and Regression

There are two major types of supervised machine learning problems, called *classification* and *regression*.

## Classification

- In classification, the goal is to predict a class label, which is a choice from a predefined list of possibilities. In Chapter 1 we used the example of classifying irises into one of three possible species. Classification is sometimes separated into binary classification, which is the special case of distinguishing between exactly two classes, and multiclass classification, which is classification between more than two classes. You can think of binary classification as trying to answer a yes/no question. Classifying emails as either spam or not spam is an example of a binary classification problem. In this binary classification task, the yes/no question being asked would be “Is this email spam?”

- In binary classification we often speak of one class being the positive class and the other class being the negative class. Here, positive doesn't represent having benefit or value, but rather what the object of the study is. So, when looking for spam, “positive” could mean the spam class. Which of the two classes is called positive is often a subjective matter, and specific to the domain.

- The iris example, on the other hand, is an example of a multiclass classification problem. Another example is predicting what language a website is in from the text on the website. The classes here would be a pre-defined list of possible languages.

## Regression

- For regression tasks, the goal is to predict a continuous number, or a floating-point number in programming terms (or real number in mathematical terms). Predicting a person’s annual income from their education, their age, and where they live is an example of a regression task. When predicting income, the predicted value is an amount, and can be any number in a given range. Another example of a regression task is predicting the yield of a corn farm given attributes such as previous yields, weather, and number of employees working on the farm. The yield again can be an arbitrary number.

- An easy way to distinguish between classification and regression tasks is to ask whether there is some kind of continuity in the output. If there is continuity between possible outcomes, then the problem is a regression problem. Think about predicting annual income. There is a clear continuity in the output. Whether a person makes $\$40,000$ or $\$40,001$ a year does not make a tangible difference, even though these are different amounts of money; if our algorithm predicts $\$39,999$ or $\$40,001$ when it should have predicted $\$40,000$, we don’t mind that much.

- By contrast, for the task of recognizing the language of a website (which is a classification problem), there is no matter of degree. A website is in one language, or it is in another. There is no continuity between languages, and there is no language that is between English and French.[^1]
