# Generalization, Overfitting, and Underfitting

- In supervised learning, we want to build a model on the training data and then be able to make accurate predictions on new, unseen data that has the same characteristics as the training set that we used. If a model is able to make accurate predictions on unseen data, we say it is able to generalize from the training set to the test set. We want to build a model that is able to generalize as accurately as possible.

- Usually we build a model in such a way that it can make accurate predictions on the training set. If the training and test sets have enough in common, we expect the model to also be accurate on the test set. However, there are some cases where this can go wrong. For example, if we allow ourselves to build very complex models, we can always be as accurate as we like on the training set.

- Let’s take a look at a made-up example to illustrate this point. Say a novice data scientist wants to predict whether a customer will buy a boat, given records of previous boat buyers and customers who we know are not interested in buying a boat.[^2] The goal is to send out promotional emails to people who are likely to actually make a purchase, but not bother those customers who won’t be interested.

## Table 2-1. Example data about customers
| Age | Number of cars owned | Owns house | Number of children | Marital status | Owns a dog | Bought a boat |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 66 | 1 | yes | 2 | widowed | no | yes |
| 52 | 2 | yes | 3 | married | no | yes |
| 22 | 0 | no | 0 | married | yes | no |
| 25 | 1 | no | 1 | single | no | no |
| 44 | 0 | no | 2 | divorced | yes | no |
| 39 | 1 | yes | 2 | married | yes | no |
| 26 | 1 | no | 2 | single | no | no |
| 40 | 3 | yes | 1 | married | yes | no |
| 53 | 2 | yes | 2 | divorced | no | yes |
| 64 | 2 | yes | 3 | divorced | no | no |
| 58 | 2 | yes | 2 | married | yes | yes |
| 33 | 1 | no | 1 | single | no | no |



- After looking at the data for a while, our novice data scientist comes up with the following rule: “If the customer is older than 45, and has less than 3 children or is not divorced, then they want to buy a boat.” When asked how well this rule of his does, our data scientist answers, “It’s 100 percent accurate!” And indeed, on the data that is in the table, the rule is perfectly accurate. There are many possible rules we could come up with that would explain perfectly if someone in this dataset wants to buy a boat. No age appears twice in the data, so we could say people who are 66, 52, 53, or 58 years old want to buy a boat, while all others don't. While we can make up many rules that work well on this data, remember that we are not interested in making predictions for this dataset; we already know the answers for these customers. We want to know if new customers are likely to buy a boat. We therefore want to find a rule that will work well on new customers. It seems too complex, and it is supported by very little data. For example, the “or is not divorced” part of the rule hinges on a single customer.

- The only measure of whether an algorithm will perform well on new data is the evaluation on the test set. However, intuitively[^3] we expect simple models to generalize better to new data. If the rule was “People older than 50 want to buy a boat,” and this would explain the behavior of all the customers, we would trust it more than the rule involving children and marital status in addition to age. Therefore, we always want to find the simplest model. Building a model that is too complex for the amount of information we have, as our novice data scientist did, is called overfitting. Overfitting occurs when you fit a model too closely to the particularities of the training set and obtain a model that works well on the training set but is not able to generalize to new data. On the other hand, if your model is too simple—say, “Everybody who owns a house buys a boat”—then you might not be able to capture all the aspects of and variability in the data, and your model will do badly even on the training set. Choosing too simple a model is called underfitting.

- The more complex we allow our model to be, the better we will be able to predict on the training data. However, if our model becomes too complex, we start focusing too much on each individual data point in our training set, and the model will not generalize well to new data.

- There is a sweet spot in between that will yield the best generalization performance. This is the model we want to find.
