# measuring Seccess: Trainning and Testing Data

- We want to build a machine learning model from this data to predict the species of iris for a new set of measurement.
- Before we apply our model to new measurement, we need to know whether it **actually works**
- We cannot use the data we used to build the model to evaluate it. This is because our model can always simply remember the whole trainning set, and will therefore always predict the correct label for any point in the trainning set. "remembering" does not indicate to us whether our model will *generalize* well.

## Scikit-learn

Scikit-learn contains a function that shuffles the dataset and splits it for you:

- The **train_test_split** function. => this function extracts 75% of the rows in the data as the trainning set, together with the corresponding labels for this data.
  => the remaining 25% of the data, together with the remaining labels, is declared as the test set. Deciding how much data you want to put into the trainning and the test set respectively is somewhat arbitrary.

### use of Scikit-learn

- Data is usually denoted with a capital X.
- Labels are denoted by a lowercase y.
  - this is inspired by the formulation $f(x) = y$

Let's call train_test_split on our data and assign the outputs using this nomenclature:

```py

from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split

X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(
    iris_dataset["data"], iris_dataset["target"], random_state=0
)
```

### Train–Test Split (Introduction)

Before performing the data split, the `train_test_split` function shuffles the
dataset using a **pseudorandom number generator**.

If we simply took, for example, the last 25% of the data as the test set, we could
introduce bias (for instance, if the data points are ordered by label). By
shuffling the data, we ensure that both the training and test sets contain samples
from all classes.

To guarantee that we obtain **the same output every time we run the code**, we
provide a fixed seed through the `random_state` parameter.  
This makes the process **deterministic**, which is essential for reproducible
experiments.

```py

print("X_train shape:", X_train.shape)
print("y_train shapes:", y_train.shape)

print("X_test shape:", X_test.shape)
print("y_test shape:", y_test.shape)
```

[out]

```sh
X_train shape: (112, 4)
y_train shapes: (112,)
X_test shape: (38, 4)
y_test shape: (38,)
```

#first_exercice
