# k-nearest neighbors

- Now we can start building the actual machine model. There are many classification algorithms in **scikit_learn** that we could use. Here we will use a k-nearest neightbors classifier, wich is easy to understand.

- The k in k-nearest neightbors signifies that instead of using only the closest neightbors to the new data point, we can consider any fixed number k of neightbors in the trainning

- example --> the closest three or fice neighbors

- Then we can make a prediction using the majority class among these neighbors.

- All machine learning models in scikit-learn are implemented in their own classes, which are called Estimator classes. The k-nearest neighbors classification algorithm is implemented in the KNeighborsClassifier class in the neighbors module. Before we can use the model, we need to instantiate the class into an object. This is when we will set any parameters of the model. The most important parameter of KNeighborsClassifier is the number of neighbors, which we will set to 1.

```python
from sklearn.neighbors import KNeighborsClassifier
knn = KNeighborsClassifier(n_neighbors=1)
```

- The knn object encapsulates the algorithm that will be used to build the model from the training data, as well as the algorithm to make predictions on new data points. It will also hold the information that the algorithm has extracted from the training data. In the case of KNeighborsClassifier, it will just store the training set.

```python
knn.fit(X_train, y_train)
```

[out]

```sh
{'algorithm': 'auto', 'leaf_size': 30, 'metric': 'minkowski', 'metric_params': None, 'n_jobs': None, 'n_neighbors': 1, 'p': 2, 'weights': 'uniform'}
```

- The fit method returns the knn object itself (and modifies it in place), so we get a string representation of our classifier. The representation shows us which parameters were used in creating the model. Nearly all of them are the default values, but you can also find n_neighbors=1, which is the parameter that we passed.

Most models in scikit-learn have many parameters, but the majority of them are either speed optimizations or for very special use cases. You don’t have to worry about the other parameters shown in this representation. Printing a scikit-learn model can yield very long strings, but don’t be intimidated by these. We will cover all the important parameters in Chapter 2. In the remainder of this book, we will not usually show the output of fit because it doesn’t contain any new information.

#first_exercice
